hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain the region of convergence for the laplace transform
in the previous video we emphasized that a complete specification of laplace transform requires algebraic expression and region of convergence
also using some example signals
we showed that two different signals may have identical algebraic expression for x of s and their laplace transforms are distinguishable only by the region of convergence
in this video we are going to discuss specific constraints on the region of convergence that are closely related with the time domain properties of the signal x of t
before moving onto these constraints let's look at poles and zeros of a rational laplace transform
since the region of convergence is closely related with the locations of the poles
after taking the given integral for a function x of t we may end up with a rational laplace transform where n of s and d of s are the numerator and the denominator polynomials
here the roots of the numerator polynomial are called the zeros of x of s and the roots of the denominator polynomial are called the poles of x of s
in other words zeros are the values for s that make x of s is equal to zero
and the poles are the values for s that make x of s is equal to infinite
if the degree of the numerator and the denominator polynomials are not equal there can be also poles and zeros at infinity
if the laplace transform is a rational function representing x of s in the s plane through its poles and zeros
as well as its region of convergence will provide a more convenient representation
this laplace transform has two zeros at one and two poles at minus one and two
x of s has neither poles and zeros at infinity
this figure shows the roc plot together with the pole zero plot
a pole is marked with a cross sign and a zero is marked with a circle
since there is a repeated zero in x of s there are two circles at one indicating these zeros
for rational laplace transforms there is a close relationship between the locations of the poles and possible rocs that can be associated with a given pole zero plot
now let's look at the constraints on the region of convergence
note that these constraints allow us to specify or to reconstruct the roc from knowledge of only the algebraic laplace transform expression and certain characteristics of the time domain function
the first property states that the roc of x of s contains strips parallel to the j omega axis in the s plane
this property can be easily verified by using the fact that the roc only depends on the real part of s
the second property states that for rational laplace transforms the roc does not contain any pole
note that x of s is infinite at pole locations
therefore the laplace transform integral does not converge at a pole
the third property states that if x of t is finite duration and absolutely integrable then the roc is the entire s plane
this figure shows a finite and absolutely integrable time domain function
for this function the laplace transform integral converges for all values of s
property four states that for a right sided signal if a point s is in the roc then all points to the right of s or all points with larger real parts are in the roc
this figure shows a right sided signal and the roc of its laplace transform
for a right sided signal the roc is commonly referred to as a right half plane
property five states that for a left sided signal if a point s is in the roc then all points to the left of s or all points with smaller real parts are in the roc
this figure shows a left sided signal and the roc of its laplace transform
for a left sided signal the roc is commonly referred to as a left half plane
property six states that if the time domain signal is two sided an example two sided signal is given in the figure the roc contains a single strip in the s plane
if the laplace transform is rational then its roc is bounded by poles or extends to infinity
in addition no poles of x of s are contained in the roc
for a rational laplace transform if the time domain signal is right sided the roc is the region in the s plane to the right of the rightmost pole
if the time domain signal is left sided then the roc is the region in the s plane to the left of the leftmost pole
in this video I have explained the poles and zeros of a rational laplace transform and the constraints on the region of convergence
let me know if you have any questions
thank you